Text processing in Go
---------------------

These are the materials for a CSCAR workshop on using
[Go](http://golang.org) for basic data processing, focusing on
processing text files.  No prior exposure to Go is expected, however
note that Go may not be the easiest language to start with if you have
never programmed before.  People with prior experience in scripting
languages such as Python should find most aspects of Go to be fairly
straightforward.

## Installation and setup

The Go project and tools are open source and community-driven.  To
compile and run Go code on your computer, you will need to download
and install the Go tool, which can be found
[here](https://golang.org/dl).  More detailed installation
instructions are [here](https://golang.org/doc/install).
Alternatively, if you are at UM and are using Flux, type "module load
go" to make the Go tool available.

Go source files can be written in a text editor, or using various
IDE's (integrated development environments).  There is no official IDE
or editor for Go.  [This
screencast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XCsL89YtqCs) walks through
the standard uses of the Go tool.

## Resources

The [effective go](https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html) document
is a complete overview of the Go language.  A somewhat friendlier
introduction to the language is the [Go
tour](https://tour.golang.org/welcome/1).
